Setting the scene
We already have our
material ready to start animating.
In the first lesson, we
will open After Effects
and we will begin
to prepare the scene.
Now, finally, we can get
full with After Effects
And start with the animation.
First we will prepare
the scene, but before that
I recommend putting
together a folder structure
To keep everything tidy.
I first create one to
which I put Rendercomps,
basically, here are
going to go precomps
that will come out
directly from rendering.
In our case, only the
final animation will go.
Then another folder for precomps.
We sort this by name.
I put the script low
so it always stays up.
Another for Assets
and alone solids will be created.
I also recommend using the tags
which are usually hidden out there.
Color the compositions of the folders
Sometimes it helps us a
little to get organized.
So, if we order by color order,
We can use to highlight some comps.
The first thing we are
going to do is import
Animatic project or
export, if we have it ready.
We will use our Animatic comp
and we will create a
new comp from that.
This we will take to Rendercomps
because it will be our final animation.
We are going to put Comp.
Animatic, the
precomp we take to Precomps
and everything else we can put in,
except Solids, we take it out
and the rest we can put in Assets.
Then we will continue to import things
And we will import
all our styleframes.
Let's put import folder.
So we already have a folder
with all the images
of the styleframes.
We also send this to Assets.
And finally, all our material.
We will enter the folder
and select all the Illustrator files
and we will make sure to mark it as:
Composition - Maintain Layer Sizes.
We are going to import this and
what it does is import all precomps
With the designs we
already have ready.
Let's clean up a little here
and we will take all
the layers of Illustrator
to the Assets folder,
and we will work with these precomps.
So, first we can start
by importing the fund
and we can import
All our styleframes to
have them as a reference.
To all layers of
styleframes and animatic
We will put them as a guide.
I sometimes put a black color,
so they do not stand out much.
As we create the
composition from that of the animatic,
that we already had it set,
we already have more
or less the duration,
dimensions and pictures per second.
If we enter Animatic
We see that our total animation
lasts approximately 16 seconds.
Then, we can make our
general comp last the same.
All layers of styleframes
are saved as a reference
and we work with the first scene
that is the one in the background.
Let's get the bottom
with Ctrl + Shift + C in a new precomp
What can we call scene_01.
Let's make sure to
mark the second option
to create a new
composition with it inside.
We will select the first styleframe
and we are going to copy the
animatic and take it into this scene.
We will work first in this scene
and then we will go,
as we go forward,
creating new scenes and we
will be adding them here.
For now we focus on the first scene.
With the animatic as a
reference, we can multiply it,
since it has black lines,
and lower the opacity a little.
The first thing we will do
is to accommodate the
bottom to match the scale we have
in our animatic or in our styleframe.
We can also use this
to have as a reference for sizes.
I usually put Layer Mode Difference
to show us a very high contrast
between the differences
between one layer and another.
So, if we scale the bottom
we can make it more or less match
with what we have in our styleframe,
and locate it correctly.
Our background has
layers of Illustrator,
if we give F4 we
see all these columns.
When we mark the layers of
Illustrator with this little star
which means "rasterize continuously",
we will make sure that
when we scale the objects
They will always look
sharp, always sharp.
If we take that out, let's
see that the pixels are scaled.
We do not want that.
We make sure that the entire
fund is marked with a little star
and that the Background Layer
itself is marked with a star.
Thus, when we climb the
bottom, everything looks clear.
That's the good thing about
working with vector objects.
and not with
Photoshop with bitmap files,
because in that case
everyone would break,
but taking advantage of the vector
We can keep everything
always clear very easily.
So, we continue to
accommodate our background
to locate it more or
less where it has to go.
What the layer does in
Layer Mode Difference
is that it shows us with
black the things that match.
When we see that what
matters to us coincides in black
we can change the Layer Mode
and we can see if it is more
or less where it has to go.
I think the floor
could go a little lower.
No, above.
The scale I think is still a bit big.
There is pretty good,
does not match
exactly for some reason,
but for now this is enough
because we are not
working with great precision.
First of all, let's save our
project: Domestika_Animation.
Now that we have our fund located,
we will modify it to
match the first scene,
which, according to our styleframe,
It has the lights off and the
columns a little further to the right.
I'm going to take that
reference styleframe,
I will go inside the background and
I will paste the styleframe guide.
What I want to do with
this is to have a reference
where are things going to go from?
So, now, the opposite
of how we did recently
that we enlarge the bottom
let's shrink the styleframe layer
to have more or less as a
reference the location of the columns.
We see that
according to the styleframe
the columns go a
little further to the right.
Luckily we have them well
separated and we can move them easily.
I am going to link the
Column_light to the Column_ Capa.
I separate the dimensions because we
know that they will move only in X.
I turn this frame into a holdframe.
I'll leave later
because I want to maintain
this position at some point.
We will modify the initial
position to match the styleframe,
It would be more or less there.
I turn it into a holdframe so
it stays fixed without animating.
We leave this frame
saved, then we will reuse it.
For now we focus on the first scene.
I can already hide
this reference styleframe
and what we should keep
in mind is that the light
It will not be present at
the beginning of the scene.
So, let's select the layers of light,
we paint them in one
color to identify them
and hide them, for now.
We are going to move
it quite to the right
to keep them, but that do
not affect in the beginning.
With Tab we can go
back to the previous comp
and see if everything is in order.
We compare our scene
with the initial styleframe
And it's pretty good.
The only thing we have
different is the diamond holder,
which in our styleframe
is a little more dark blue.
Then we will grab that object
and the first thing we are going to
do is create shapes from the vector.
We are going to do
this a lot in our project
because it will allow us to edit
the layers within that same object.
We will go to its contents.
We see that we have three groups.
We can hide them
and we realize that the third
one is the one we need to edit.
From here we want to
change the color of the stroke.
Then let's animate it.
We are going to keep
it leading to the right
and we will choose the color
that corresponds to this scene,
That is a darker blue.
Then, again we hold it so that
it remains without animation.
Returning to the first scene, we
see that everything is perfect.
So, now we can show our animatic
and see when things start to change.
The first scene we will see that lasts
while the light
appears, when the girl falls,
and cut when we approach the camera.
So leaving some more tolerance frames
we can trim the first scene
more or less at 5 seconds.
Now we see that
according to our animatic
more or less in the second
1.5 the light begins to appear.
Then we can set
that in the background.
We take advantage of
that with After Effects
when we double click on a precomp
It keeps us the time we stand.
We are at the moment
when the light comes on
and we can make our layers
begin at that right moment.
Then, in the second 1.5
the lights will come on.
Then we can animate
them a little better,
But for now that's fine.
Let's start with the thickest
and little by little we
will be adding details.
According to our Animatic,
following it as a reference,
from the second two
Our character appears up there.
As it will be animated, it will
probably start appearing earlier,
but for now we will
place it only as a reference.
We are looking for our
character, which appears with a rope,
and we have it start right now,
and with the animatic as a reference
we will place it where it has to go.
The next thing that happens is
that our character falls to the floor.
Let's make this precomp end there
and then the character
appears on the floor.
As we always kept the scale
when making our illustrations,
now we can import the object
and it will be on the scale we need,
beyond the
composition itself being larger.
We can hide our animatic
because we no longer
need it as a reference.
And we place our
character a little better.
We see that there is quite good.
So, if we go to the original comp
We can already hide our animatic.
We will always have it
as a reference anyway.
We already have our first
scene, practically ready.
Of course we need to animate it,
but we have more or
less things in place.
So we will continue with the others
to have a first base of everything.
First we make sure
that at Rendercomps,
We only have the main comp,
So we are ordering a little.